---
layout: post
title:  Securing your life with U2F and Yubikey
date:   2017-12-28
categories: tutorials
---

### What is a Yubikey?

A Yubikey is a physical device, known as a Security Key that is used for Universal Two Factor (U2F) Authentication. The benefits of U2F are

- You don't have to look at your phone everytime you want to login to something that you have configured Two Factor Authentication (TFA), you just plug the Yubikey into a USB port and tap the button
- It is secure because you just stick it on your keychain, which you carry around all the time.
- It can be used on many websites, such as GitHub, Google, Facebook, LastPass (with a premium plan). Although Google and Facebook require chrome, you can use it on Firefox (which is what I do) by changing some settings, which I will cover in the next section.

### Configuring U2F in Firefox

In order to use U2F in Firefox Quantum, although it does ship with it out of the box without the need to use plugins, you do have tweak some settings. Follow these steps.

1. In the URL bar, type in `about:config` and then click `I accept the risk!`
2. Search for `u2f` and double click on the result line, the `Value` should change from `false` to `true`.

There! Firefox is now configured to be able to use U2F. Although, as I said above, Firefox is not _completely_ compatible with FIDO U2F, according to Yubico [here](https://www.yubico.com/2017/11/how-to-navigate-fido-u2f-in-firefox-quantum/):

>Integrating with FIDO U2F v1.1 JS API will allow a developer’s web app to support U2F on Firefox. That said, it’s important to understand that every FIDO U2F implementation can vary from the official specifications. For example, Mozilla did not fully implement the FIDO AppID and Facet Specification. Some sites supporting FIDO U2F have made accommodations for the incompleteness of Firefox’s implementation, but some have not. In other situations, some services may not work with Firefox Quantum because of a service-specific implementation. For this reason, Firefox Quantum users are currently having trouble authenticating with their FIDO U2F devices for some sites that typically support FIDO U2F devices.

### Configuring with Other Services

Now that you have it configured for Firefox, you can setup U2F on other websites, I will cover the steps for GitHub, but the complete list, provided by Yubico can be found [here](https://www.yubico.com/start/#yubikey-neo) (note, this page is for the Yubikey Neo, to select a different key, go [here](https://www.yubico.com/start/)).

1. Navigate to your Security preferences in GitHub, or follow this [link](https://github.com/settings/security) (assuming you are already logged in).
2. Navigate to the `Two-Factor Authentication` and click on `Set up two-factor authentication`.
3. To enable TFA, you need to either setup an Authenticator app which is on your phone and shows a rolling 6 digit code for each service you setup; or setup SMS TFA, I suggest the former, there are a number of Authenticator apps, the most popular is Google's Authenticator (available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2&hl=en) and [iTunes](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/google-authenticator/id388497605?mt=8)). With the authenticator, you simply scan a barcode and it just works.
4. When you click on your desired TFA platform, you will be presented with Recovery codes, these are very important, as they are the last resort for you to login, so save them and store them securely, ideally in a password manager, such as [LastPass](https://lastpass.com).
5. Next, click on `Next` and then scan the barcode with your desired authenticator, and input the rolling code and select `Enable`.
6. To enable Yubikey U2F, scroll to the bottom of the new page, where it says `Security Keys`, make sure your key in plugged in, press `Register new device`, assign a nickname, click `add` and press the button on your key. Now you're all set to log into GitHub with your key (and password of course).

### U2F On Windows

Now that you have secured your GitHub account, and possibly other websites with U2F, you might also want to secure your computer. I will be covering how to secure you _Windows 10_ computer, since I don't have a Linux computer, I haven't tried doing it, so I don't feel comfortable instructing how.  

There are only a few steps in securing your Win10 PC with your Yubikey,

1. Go to the Windows store and install the [YubiKey for Windows Hello app](https://www.microsoft.com/store/productId/9NBLGGH511M5).
2. Enable CCID Mode on your key

    1. Install the [YubiKey NEO Manager](https://www.yubico.com/support/knowledge-base/categories/articles/yubikey-neo-manager/)
    2. Make sure your key is plugged in and, in the manager, click `Change Connection Mode` and tick the box for `CCID`.
    3. You will have to unplug and re-insert your key.
3. If you are using Windows 10 Home, you may skip to step 4, if you are on Pro or Enterprise, you need to ensure that the `Allow companion device for secondary authentication` setting is not disabled. To do this follow these steps.

    1. Press the `Windows Key` and `R`, and type `gpedit.msc`.
    2. In the Local Group Policy Editor, from the top level Local Computer Policy, navigate to Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Microsoft Secondary Authentication Factor.
    3. In the right pane, click the link to Edit policy setting. (You can also double-click the setting to Allow companion device for secondary authentication.) The default state is Not configured.
        - If the policy is displaying Not Configured or Enabled, then you do not have to make any additional changes. Click Cancel.
        - If the setting is displayed as Disabled, continue with the next step.
    4. In the setting screen, select the option for **Enabled**, and click **OK**.
    5. Exit out of the management console.
4. If you already have Windows Hello enabled, either for facial recognition, or for fingerprint, continue to step 5, otherwise, follow these steps.

    1. Open up the settings menu, and search for `Hello` or navigate to Accounts > Sign in options.
    2. To use Windows Hello, you will need a pin, I would suggest a strong pin (8-12 characters) since there is currently no way to ***require*** the use of the YubiKey to sign-in.
5. Open up the **YubiKey for Windows Hello** app, and click `Register`, make sure your key is plugged in and press continue. Bam, it's that easy.

I hope this tutorial helped, if you have any questions, feel free to email me at [seth@sethgower.com](mailto:seth@sethgower.com).
